IMPORTANT NOTE:

This is the package formerly known as biblatex-chicago-notes-df.  It
is designed for use with the latest version (3.7) of biblatex.  The
package still contains both the 15th- and 16th-edition Chicago style
files, though I have marked the 15th-edition styles as "obsolete" and
have moved them into a separate subdirectory, and I am concentrating
all of my development time on the 16th edition.  If you have used the
package before, then you should be sure to consult the RELEASE file to
find out what alterations you may need to make to your .bib files and
document preambles to bring them up to date.  Most particularly please
note that Biber is now required for the author-date styles, and very
strongly advised for the notes & bibliography style (version 2.7 is
designed for use with the latest biblatex).

README (version 1.0rc4, 2017-05-02):

Biblatex-chicago contains three biblatex styles implementing the
specifications of the Chicago Manual of Style, 16th edition.  The
"notes & bibliography" style was formerly available in the package
biblatex-chicago-notes-df, and is intended primarily for writers in
the humanities.  The "author-date" style, generally favored by writers
in the sciences and social sciences, comes in two flavors.  The 16th
edition of the Manual has brought the presentation of sources in this
style much more into line with the notes & bibliography specification,
especially regarding the formatting of titles.  If you still require
titles to be capitalized sentence style, and article titles, for
example, not to be enclosed in quotation marks, then you may now use
the traditional author-date style ("authordate-trad"), which provides
these features while in all other respects following the 16th-edition
specifications.  I encourage all users to choose one of these three
up-to-date styles, which should now cater to nearly all needs.  The
15th-edition styles have received no fixes or updates, and won't
compile with the latest biblatex.  If you absolutely must continue
using them, you'll need to specify "notes15" or "authordate15" in the
options when loading biblatex-chicago, and downgrade biblatex itself,
perhaps to version 2.9a.

This is a beta release, but its feature set is already fairly
extensive.  If you have used the package before you may, after
perusing the RELEASE file, want to look at the changelog at the end of
biblatex-chicago.pdf, which contains cross-references to more detailed
explanations about how this update will affect parts of your .bib
file.  If you are just getting started, the best way to learn the
system is to read the Quickstart section in that same file, then read
either cms-notes-intro.pdf or cms-dates-intro.pdf, each of which are
fully cross-referenced and contain links to the complete reference
guide to both styles in sections 4 or 5 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.  The
package also contains annotated .bib files (notes-test.bib and
dates-test.bib) which each offer over 100 entries demonstrating how to
present a wide range of sources, nearly all of them taken from the
Chicago Manual of Style itself, so that you can compare the output of
your system (cms-notes-sample.tex, cms-dates-sample.tex,
cms-trad-sample.tex) or my system (cms-notes-sample.pdf,
cms-dates-sample.pdf, cms-trad-sample.pdf) with the actual examples in
the Manual.

I have, wherever possible, attempted to maintain backward
compatibility with the standard biblatex styles, but there are a
significant number of situations where I have been unable to do so,
which means that switching among various styles while using the same
bibliography database will not be as simple and painless as it could
be.  If you can see ways better to preserve this compatibility, or
indeed to improve the package in any way whatsoever, please let me
know, or better yet, send a patch.  If the styles don't behave as you
expect or if you discover a bug, I'd be very happy to hear about it,
but do please read biblatex-chicago.pdf first, as you may find that
your question has already been answered there.  If you do find a bug,
please send me the .bib entry, your LaTeX preamble, and your output
.log, so that I can try to reproduce it here.  My email address is at
the head of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

Installation:

With the recent proliferation of files, I have adopted the directory
structure found in biblatex.zip, so if you want to place these files
in your TeX directory tree instead of in your working directory, I
recommend the following, which should be familiar from the main
biblatex package:

 - The twenty-one files biblatex-chicago.sty, chicago-notes.cbx,
   chicago-notes.bbx, chicago-authordate.cbx, chicago-authordate.bbx,
   chicago-authordate-trad.cbx, chicago-authordate-trad.bbx,
   chicago-dates-common.cbx, cms-american.lbx, cms-british.lbx,
   cms-finnish.lbx, cms-french.lbx, cms-german.lbx, cms-icelandic.lbx,
   cms-ngerman.lbx, cms-norsk.lbx, cms-norwegian.lbx, cms-nynorsk.lbx,
   and cms-swedish.lbx are located in the latex/ subdirectory, itself
   further subdivided into bbx/, cbx/, and lbx/.  The entire contents
   of this latex/ directory, including its subdirectories, can go in
   <TEXMFLOCAL>/tex/latex/biblatex-contrib/biblatex-chicago, where
   <TEXMFLOCAL> is the root of your local TeX installation -- for
   example, and depending on your system, /usr/share/texmf-local,
   /usr/local/texmf, or C:\Local TeX Files\.  You may need to create
   this directory first, and after copying the files there please
   remember to update your TeX file name database so that TeX can find
   them.

 - The seventeen files biblatex-chicago.tex, biblatex-chicago.pdf,
   cms-notes-intro.tex, cms-notes-intro.pdf, cms-dates-intro.tex,
   cms-dates-intro.pdf, cms-trad-appendix.tex, cms-trad-appendix.pdf,
   cms-notes-sample.tex, cms-dates-sample.tex, cms-trad-sample.tex,
   cms-notes-sample.pdf, cms-dates.sample.pdf, cms-trad-sample.pdf,
   notes-test.bib, dates-test.bib, and cmsdocs.sty can all be found in
   the doc/ directory in the package archive, the last 15 in the
   examples/ subdirectory.  You can place all of this in
   <TEXMFLOCAL>/doc/latex/biblatex-contrib/biblatex-chicago.

 - The ten files chicago-notes15.bbx, chicago-notes15.cbx,
   chicago-authordate15.bbx, chicago-authordate15.cbx,
   biblatex-chicago15.tex, biblatex-chicago15.pdf,
   cms15-notes-sample.tex, cms15-dates-sample.tex,
   cms15-notes-sample.pdf, and cms15-dates.sample.pdf can all be found
   in the obsolete/ subdirectory in the package archive.  You can
   place that directory in
   <TEXMFLOCAL>/tex/latex/biblatex-contrib/biblatex-chicago.

Changelog: See the RELEASE file, and also the end of
biblatex-chicago.pdf.

Copyright (c) 2008-2017 David Fussner.  This package is
author-maintained.  This work may be copied, distributed and/or
modified under the conditions of the LaTeX Project Public License,
either version 1.3 of this license or (at your option) any later
version.  The latest version of this license is in
http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt and version 1.3 or later is part
of all distributions of LaTeX version 2005/12/01 or later.  This
software is provided "as is," without warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.
