Release notes for version 1.0rc4 [2017-05-02]:

Another bug-fix release.

 - Marko Wenzel reported, and helped to fix, a fairly major problem
   with the date handling in the author-date styles, an issue I hadn't
   spotted when doing the date-related updates for 1.0rc2.

 - I've also fixed a long-standing inaccuracy in the date-handling
   code of Patent entries in the author-date styles.  Such entries now
   behave as the documentation claims they do.

Release notes for version 1.0rc3 [2017-04-20]:

This is a minor bug-fix release.

 - Charles Schaum reported a whitespace bug that appeared when using
   multiple languages with Babel.  This was introduced in the last
   release by some careless editing by me, and should be fixed now.

 - Charles also pointed me to a discussion about a problem using
   BibTeX with biblatex-chicago.  Ulrike Fischer very kindly suggested
   an elegant solution, and I have integrated it into this release.

Release notes for version 1.0rc2 [2017-03-26]:

This is an interim release designed mainly to fix a number of subtle
issues, pointed out by several users, that appear when you use the
newest version of biblatex (3.7).  These were mostly concentrated in
the date-handling code, which I believe now behaves correctly, and
should do both with the newest biblatex and with somewhat older
releases.  A much larger set of new features is still pending, but I
have fixed some other bugs and added a few new options:

 - J. P. E. Harper-Scott pointed out that, in ordinary British usage,
   day numbers are presented as plain cardinals rather than ordinals.
   The Manual itself also prefers this format, not only for
   American-style dates but also for British ones, so I think the
   previous behavior of the package was a bug.  I have in both styles
   set the default presentation of British day numerals to be plain
   cardinals, providing a new preamble option "ordinalgb" restoring
   the previous default and printing ordinal dates when using the
   "british" language with Babel.

 - I have, in both styles, attempted to provide an improved \partedit
   macro, the old one being inconvenient for users writing in French.
   The new macro should work now without manual intervention to
   provide the correct form of the preposition (de or d').  If you are
   using the "french" option to Babel, please take care to remove any
   hand-formatting you might have provided in these contexts.

 - Jan David Hauck has both reported a bug in the \gentextcite code in
   the author-date styles and also pointed me to its solution, as
   provided by moewe on Stackexchange.  It turned out there were other
   bugs in that code, now also fixed.

 - User laudecir requested a way to present a "shorthand" even in the
   first citation of a given work.  The new "shorthandfirst" option in
   the notes & bibliography style can be set to "true" either in the
   preamble or in individual entries, and should make this
   functionality simpler to activate than the \shorthandcite command.

 - Also in the notes & bibliography style, Stefan Björk requested a
   way to turn off the printing of "url," "doi," and "eprint"
   information in notes but not in the bibliography.  The new
   "urlnotes" option, which you can set to "false" in the preamble or
   in individual entries, provides this.  Please note that it does not
   apply to Online entries.

 - Several users pointed out the presence of warnings in .log files
   caused by deprecated grammar in the default Sorting Schemes of both
   styles.  These should now be fixed.

Release notes for version 1.0rc1 [2016-06-07]:

 - The 15th-edition styles are now obsolete, and have been moved to a
   new obsolete/ subdirectory.  You can still use them as they stand,
   but they won't compile against the newest biblatex, so you'll have
   to make sure that you have an older version (2.9a, perhaps).  If
   you are still using them, I strongly urge you to consider switching
   to the the 16th-edition styles, which contain many new features and
   bug-fixes.

 - The old Chicago-specific option "usecompiler" is deprecated, and
   has been replaced by the standard biblatex "usenamec".  If you have
   been using the former in your preamble or in your .bib entries,
   please replace it with the latter, which works better across the
   board.  "Usecompiler" still "works," just not very well.

 - Stefan Björk has very generously provided a Swedish localization
   file for the package -- cms-swedish.lbx -- which can be loaded and
   used with babel just like the other localizations.

 - I have added support for "related" functionality to all the Chicago
   styles, including all the standard biblatex "relatedtypes".  It is
   turned on by default in all styles, but you can turn it off, or
   alter where the information is printed, using the "related" option
   in the preamble or in individual entries.  In the notes &
   bibliography style, "related" information is printed by default
   only in the bibliography, but you can change that by setting the
   option.  In the author-date styles, it will only ever print in the
   list of references, depending on the option's setting.  Please see
   sections 4.2.1 and 5.2.1 of biblatex-chicago.pdf for the details.

 - I have improved the name-handling code in all styles, regularizing
   the functioning of the "namea", "nameb", and "namec" fields with
   respect to the other, standard biblatex names.  The former two in
   particular are newly available in the Collection and Periodical
   entry types, and biblatex-chicago now recognizes the standard
   "usenamea", "usenameb", and "usenamec" toggles, the last replacing
   the deprecated "usecompiler" (as above).  You can also now use the
   "nameatype" field just as you would an "editortype", extending the
   possibilities for identifying certain roles attached specifically
   to "titles" as opposed to "booktitles" or "maintitles".

 - After a request by user BenVB, I have added support for the
   biblatex "shortjournal" field, which allows you to present
   abbreviated "journaltitles" in all the styles.  You can use the
   "journalabbrev" option to control where in your document these
   abbreviated forms will appear.  By default, the field is ignored in
   the notes & bibliography style, and appears only in citations in
   the author-date styles.  You can also print a list of journal
   abbreviations, rather in the manner of a list of shorthands, using
   a command like: \printbiblist{shortjournal}.  Even though the
   Periodical entry type uses the "title" and "shorttitle" fields in
   place of "journaltitle" and "shortjournal", these entries are
   included in this functionality, and controlled by the same
   "journalabbrev" option.  Please see s.v. "shortjournal" in sections
   4.2 and 5.2 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - Following a request by Arne Skjærholt, and his generous provision
   of some code to get me started, I have implemented a new
   \gentextcite citation command in all styles.  The "gen" part of the
   name refers to the genitive case, and it adds a possessive ending
   -- 's by default -- to the author's name in what is otherwise an
   ordinary \textcite.  You can change the added ending however you
   want, using a third optional field to the citation command, and you
   can control to which names the ending is added in a \gentextcites
   multicite command by using the "genallnames" preamble and entry
   option.  Please see sections 4.3.2 and 5.3.2 for the details.

 - Stefan Björk pointed out that "url", "doi", and "eprint"
   information could be totally ignored in some entries when you used
   the abbreviated cross-referencing functionality accessed through
   the "crossref" and "xref" fields.  At his request, I have provided
   a new "xrefurl" entry and preamble option for all the styles to
   control the printing of this information in abbreviated notes or
   bibliography (reference list) entries.  Please see sections 4.4.3
   and 5.4.3 for the details.

 - In a related change, I have stopped child entries inheriting "url",
   "doi", and "eprint" fields from their cross-ref'd parents, so if
   your documents rely on this behavior please note that you'll have
   to provide such fields manually in the child entries.

 - Roger Hart long ago requested a way to control the punctuation
   before "book-", "main-", or plain "titleaddon" fields, and I have
   finally added it in this release in the form of two entry and
   preamble options, "ptitleaddon" and "ctitleaddon", available in all
   styles.  By default, the former prints \addperiod\addspace, hence
   its name, and the latter \addcomma\addspace, but you can change
   either or both depending on which field you are using and which
   sort of entry it appears in -- the default output can be your guide
   to which option(s) to change.  Please see the available valid
   option keys in sections 4.4.2 and 5.4.2.

 - The same user also long ago requested that the notes & bibliography
   style make it possible to use "Idem" when two consecutive notes
   cite different works by the same author.  You can now use the
   standard biblatex option "idemtracker=constrict" in your preamble
   to activate this in your documents, but please be aware, first,
   that the Manual doesn't exactly approve of this and, second, that
   you'll only see "Idem" in short notes, never in full ones, which
   seems to be the standard biblatex way of implementing this.

 - Also only in the notes & bibliography style, I have added a
   "shorthandpunct" option to control the punctuation that appears
   before the first appearance of a "shorthand" and/or a
   "shorthandintro" in a long note.  The default is \addspace, but you
   can change it in your preamble or in individual entries.  Please
   see the available valid option keys in section 4.4.2 of
   biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - After reading a discussion started by Ryo Furue at github, I have
   added, in the author-date styles only, a test to some spacing
   commands to prevent line breaks immediately after abbreviation
   dots.  These tests apply only in running text, never in the list of
   references, where good line breaks are already hard enough to find.

 - In addition to moving the 15th-edition styles into an obsolete/
   subdirectory, I have also reorganized the author-date style files,
   adding chicago-dates-common.cbx, which contains the code that is
   common to the "trad" and the standard "authordate" styles.  Nothing
   has changed in terms of loading the styles, the changes being
   designed primarily to ease maintenance.

 - I have created two new documentation files (and an appendix) to
   provide short introductions to the Chicago styles, introductions
   which attempt to fill the gap between the Quickstart section of
   biblatex-chicago.pdf and the fuller documentation contained in
   sections 4 and 5 of that file.  Both cms-notes-intro.pdf and
   cms-dates-intro.pdf are fully hyperlinked so you can move easily
   from formatted citations and (annotated) references to .bib entries
   and back, with marginal references to the fuller discussions in
   biblatex-chicago.pdf.  There is also a short cms-trad-appendix.pdf
   file to discuss a few entries that would need special treatment for
   the "trad" style.  The sample files for each style still exist, but
   I intend them mainly for testing purposes, while many more
   (annotated) entries are still available for consultation in
   notes-test.bib and dates-test.bib.

 - I have made a number of other small enhancements to and fixed
   numerous bugs in all the styles, including some subtle inaccuracies
   in author-date citations spotted by Arne Skjærholt and some macros
   in InProceedings entries that had been missing for years.  I have
   provided some default values for counters in biblatex-chicago.sty
   that aid in breaking long urls across lines, but I make no pretense
   that these fully adhere to the Manual's specifications.  I have
   added a few \bibstrings, currently missing in standard biblatex, to
   cms-german.lbx for use with the "related" functionality.
   Recommendations for better ones would be gratefully received.

Release notes for version 0.9.9i [2016-05-16]:

 - This is another interim release, allowing the use of biblatex 3.4
   for those who want to try it.  I have also fixed one old formatting
   error when "n.d." appears in author-date citations.  A full
   feature-release based on 3.4 is imminent.

Release notes for version 0.9.9h [2016-03-22]:

 - This is an interim bug-fix release, updating the styles so that
   they will work with biblatex 3.3.  The notes & bibliography style,
   as pointed out by several users, wouldn't compile at all with the
   newest biblatex version, and all styles had inaccuracies in the
   presentation of names due to changes in the name-handling code in
   biblatex.  I've done some testing against biblatex 3.3, and fixed
   all the errors I've spotted, but there may still be parts of my
   code that need updating to work well with the current version, so
   you can still downgrade to an earlier biblatex -- I recommend 2.9a
   -- if 3.3 doesn't work for you.  The next release will be a feature
   release, so if you've made a request, it should be fulfilled then.

 - I've also fixed a couple of long-standing bugs, one in the entry
   options controlling abbreviated cross-references and another in the
   formatting of the "prenote" field, the latter identified (ages ago)
   by Bernd Rellermeyer.

Release notes for version 0.9.9g [2014-08-21]:

 - Alexandre Roberts found a showstopper in the functionality related
   to the new "inheritshorthand" option in the notes & bibliography
   style, and I found an unpleasant bug in the formatting of
   abbreviated cross-references in the same style.  This release, I
   hope, fixes both, but is in all other respects identical to 0.9.9f.

Release notes for version 0.9.9f [2014-08-15]:

 - I've made the alterations needed to bring the styles into line with
   the latest version of biblatex (2.9a).  This is the version that
   has been tested most thoroughly with biblatex-chicago, so I
   strongly recommend using it.

 - I fixed several inaccuracies in the presentation of abbreviated
   cross-references in all the Chicago styles, and while I was working
   on that portion of the code it seemed an opportune moment to
   fulfill some feature requests bearing on the same area of
   functionality.

 - First, following a request from Alexandre Roberts, I have added the
   "inheritshorthand" option to the notes & bibliography style, which
   allows child entries to inherit the "shorthand" field from their
   parents.  This in turn allows the shorthand itself to appear in
   place of the usual abbreviated citation of parent entries
   cross-referenced by several different child entries, thereby saving
   some space.  (This behavior was already available in the
   author-date styles, so the option is unnecessary there.)  You'll
   need to use "skipbiblist" in the "options" field of child entries
   to make the list of shorthands work correctly.  Please see the
   documentation of the "shorthand" field for the full explanation.

 - Second, following a request from Kenneth Pearce, I have added to
   all Chicago styles the capacity to combine abbreviated
   cross-references with the presentation of the original text of
   translations (via the "userf" field) or of the original publication
   details of an essay or chapter you are citing from a subsequent
   reprint (via the "reprinttitle" field).  See the documentation of
   those fields, and also of "crossref," and note that you can now,
   taking certain precautions as outlined in the "shorthand" docs,
   combine the "userf," "crossref," and "shorthand" fields.  This
   mechanism contains a great many moving parts, so please report any
   problems you might have with it.

 - Third, and finally, following a bug report by Mark van Atten I have
   fixed all Chicago styles so that the biblatex "backref" mechanism
   works properly in biblatex-chicago, including in those entries that
   use abbreviated cross-references, and in those that use the "userf"
   or "reprinttitle" fields.  I can't see any instructions concerning
   this in the Manual, so I've left the formatting of "backref" lists
   in the hands of biblatex itself.  If the default behavior doesn't
   match your needs, let me know, as it's possible I could add some
   further options for modifying it.

 - I have added a new "compresspages" option to all the Chicago
   styles.  If set to "true" it automatically compresses page ranges
   in the "pages" and "postnote" fields, allowing you to type ranges
   naturally, e.g., 101--109, and letting the package follow the
   Manual's rules for you.  (In this case, it would yield 101-9 in the
   document.)  Thanks are due to David Gohlke who brought to my
   attention a discussion that took place a couple of years ago on
   Stack Exchange regarding the automatic compression of page ranges.
   Biblatex has long had the facilities for providing this, and though
   the Manual's rules (9.60) are fairly complicated, Audrey Boruvka
   fortunately provided in that discussion code that implements the
   specifications.  As some users may well be accustomed to
   compressing page ranges themselves in their .bib files, and in
   their "postnote" fields, I have made the activation of this code a
   package option.

 - Several users, most recently David Gohlke, have requested a way to
   alter the punctuation that appears just before the "postnote"
   argument of citation commands.  This allows, in the notes &
   bibliography style, citations to fit better into the flow of text,
   while in the author-date styles it allows you very easily to insert
   comments, which follow a semi-colon, inside parenthetical text
   citations.  This punctuation is a complex issue in the Manual, but
   as a first stab at enabling this greater flexibility, I have
   introduced the "postnotepunct" package option.  Set to "true," it
   allows you to start the "postnote" field with a punctuation mark
   (. , ; :) and have it appear as the \postnotedelim in place of
   whatever the package might otherwise automatically have chosen.
   Please note that this functionality relies on a very nifty macro by
   Philipp Lehman which I haven't extensively tested, so I'm labeling
   this option "experimental."  Note also that the option only affects
   the "postnote" field of citation commands, not the "pages" field in
   your .bib file.  Note, finally, that if you are using the new
   "compresspages" option then any "postnote" field starting with a
   punctuation mark will require you to do the compression of page
   ranges yourself.

 - I've added a new inheritance declaration so that InCollection
   entries can inherit from Book entries the same way they inherit
   from MVBook.

 - I've fixed a fair number of other bugs, including two in the Ibidem
   mechanism pointed out by Bernd Rellermeyer, one in the printing of
   dates, and one in the \textcite command in the notes & bibliography
   style, these last two pointed out by Kenneth Beesley.  The
   presentation of all the periodical entry types (without an
   "entrysubtype") has also been made more accurate.

Release notes for version 0.9.9e [2014-01-29]:

 - This minor release fixes a regression in the Ibidem mechanism in
   the notes & bibliography style, spotted by Harold Bellemare, and
   present in the package since version 0.9.9c.  In all other respects
   this release is identical to 0.9.9d.

Release notes for version 0.9.9d [2013-10-30]:

 - I am marking the 15th-edition styles as "strongly deprecated."  I
   recommend that you switch to one of the 16th-edition styles as soon
   as is practicable.  The older styles still work, but in the next
   major release I shall mark them as "obsolete," and cease updating
   them.

There are four changes in this release that may, depending on various
factors, require alterations in your documents or .bib files:

 - Following requests by Kenneth L. Pearce and Bertold Schweitzer, I
   have modified and extended the mechanism for creating abbreviated
   citations when several parts of the same collection are included in
   a reference apparatus.  To the InCollection, InProceedings, and
   Letter entries of previous releases, I have added InBook, Book,
   BookInBook, Collection, and Proceedings entries.  Only InBook
   entries join the former three in having this functionality turned
   on by default --- if you don't want this, it will require
   intervention either in the preamble or in the "options" field of
   individual entries.  This intervention will be via the new
   "longcrossref" option, which controls the behavior of the four
   essay-like entry types and defaults to "false," while the new
   "booklongxref" option controls the four book-like types and
   defaults to "true."  The useful settings for the options differ
   slightly between the author-date and the notes & bibliography
   specifications, so please see all the details in the docs of the
   "crossref" field in sections 4.2 and 5.2 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - On the same subject, in the notes & bibliography style, I should
   mention that in the first, full citation of one part of a
   collection in a note, the code no longer uses a separate citation
   of the parent entry to supply parts of what you see printed.  (This
   led to numerous inaccuracies.)  If your setup uses a side-effect of
   the old code to print data that hasn't even been inherited by the
   child, you may find that you need to change some "xref" fields to
   "crossref" fields to make it work correctly now.  This situation
   will, I imagine, be very rare, but you can look at white:ross:memo
   in notes-test.bib to see an example.

 - In the author-date styles, several users have been frustrated by
   the lack of an approved way of setting the "cmsdate" option in the
   preambles of their documents, and Kenneth L. Pearce requested that
   I attempt to ease the burden on users by looking at this again.
   With this release, you can now set "cmsdate" either to "both" or
   "on" in the preamble, and it will affect all entries (except Music,
   Review, and Video) with multiple dates.  You can still change this
   setting in the "options" field of individual entries, but what you
   won't be able to change there is the new call to \DeclareLabeldate
   which puts the "origdate" first in the list of dates when Biber
   searches for a "labelyear" to use in citations and in the list of
   references.  If you have been using the "switchdates" mechanism to
   get the "origdate" as the "labeldate," your .bib files may need
   some editing in order to use the new preamble options.  Please see
   the documentation of the "date" field in section 5.2 of
   biblatex-chicago.pdf for all the (voluminous) details.

 - Following a request by Rasmus Pank Rouland, I adapted new biblatex
   code in the \textcite(s) commands in all styles to make them fit
   more elegantly in the flow of text.  Upon reconsideration of the
   commands in the notes & bibliography style, I slightly modified
   them, but _only_ when used inside a foot- or endnote.  In this
   context, by default, for both \textcite and \textcites, you'll now
   get the author's name(s) followed by a headless _short_ citation
   (or citations) placed within parentheses.  You can use
   \renewcommand in the preamble of your document to redefine the new
   \foottextcite and \foottextcites commands to change this
   formatting.  See section 4.3.1 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

Other New Features:

 - This release includes support, in all styles, for biblatex's
   multi-volume entry types: MVBook, MVCollection, MVProceedings, and
   MVReference.

 - If you use Biber, I have added several new inheritance schemes to
   all styles to make cross-referenced entries work more smoothly:
   InCollection entries can now inherit from MVBook just as they do
   from MVCollection entries; Letter entries now inherit from Book,
   Collection, MVBook, and MVCollection entries the same way an InBook
   or an InCollection entry would; the "namea," "nameb," "sortname,"
   "sorttitle," and "sortyear" fields, all highly single-entry
   specific, are no longer inheritable; and the "date" and "origdate"
   fields of any MV* entry will _not_ be inherited by any other entry
   type.

 - Following a bug report by Henry D. Hollithron, I've added to
   Unpublished entries in all styles the possibility of including an
   "editor," "translator," etc.

 - Thanks to bug reports from Denis Maier and Bertold Schweitzer, I
   corrected inaccuracies and outright bugs in many entry types in all
   Chicago styles that appeared when there was a "booktitle" and not a
   "maintitle" or vice versa.  This also involved another rewrite of
   the code handling the "volume" field and other related fields in
   all non-periodical entry types that use them.

 - On the subject of the "volume" field, I added a new preamble and
   entry option, "delayvolume," to the notes & bibliography style.  In
   long notes where this data isn't printed before a "maintitle," this
   option allows you to print it _after_ the publication information
   rather than _before_ it, as may sometimes help clarify things,
   according to the Manual.  This applies to the non-periodical entry
   types only.

 - On the same subject, in all styles, I have added a new preamble and
   entry option, "hidevolumes."  This controls whether, in entries
   where a "volume" has been printed before a "maintitle," any
   "volumes" field present will also be printed, in this case _after_
   the "maintitle."  By default, this is set to "true," so that the
   "volumes" field won't appear in such circumstances.

 - On the same subject, I have modified, in all styles, the field
   format for the "part" field, so that if the field contains
   something other than a number, biblatex-chicago will print it as
   is, capitalizing it if necessary, rather than supplying the usual
   bibstring, thus providing a mechanism for altering the string to
   your liking.  I have also decoupled the "part" field from the
   "volume" field, allowing it to be printed even in the absence of
   the latter, thereby providing a means to refer to segments of a
   larger work that don't easily fit the established schemes.  The
   iso:electrodoc entry in dates-test.bib shows an example of how this
   might work.

 - There is a new "omitxrefdate" preamble and entry option in the
   notes & bibliography style.  It turns off the printing of the
   child's "date" next to its "title" in abbreviated book-like entries
   _only_, in both notes and bibliography.

 - Clea F. Rees requested a way to customize the punctuation when a
   volume and a page number appear together like so: "2:204."  You can
   use \renewcommand in your preamble to redefine the new
   \postvolpunct command to achieve this, in all styles.  If your
   document language is French, cms-french.lbx redefines this already
   and prints something like "2 : 204."

 - I extended, in all styles, the functions of the "userd" field,
   allowing it to modify a "date" field if it hasn't already been
   captured by another date specification in the entry.

 - A bug report from Mathias Legrand helped clear up inaccuracies in
   the presentation of ordinal numbers in all styles.

 - For the author-date styles, another bug report by Kenneth Pearce
   resulted in the addition of the "labelyear" to the default "cms"
   sorting scheme so that more entries in the reference list are
   sorted properly without further user intervention.

 - George Pigman found an odd punctuation-tracking bug in the
   author-date styles.  This has been fixed.

 - Marc Sommer found a bug in the presentation of the "prenote" field
   in the author-date styles.  This has been fixed.

 - In the notes & bibliography style, I improved the behavior of
   abbreviated foot- and endnotes when using the hyperref package.

 - I modified the date-presentation code in all the language files
   (cms-*.lbx) provided by the package.  Now, if an entry contains a
   "(*)year" and an "(*)endyear" that are exactly the same, and there
   aren't any further month or day specifications, then the "(*)year"
   alone will be printed.  This allows for the clearing of spurious
   "(*)endyears" inherited from parent entries.

 - I discovered some unpleasant side effects of my arrangement of the
   .lbx files devoted to Norwegian, and reverted to the arrangement as
   originally provided by Håkon Malmedal.

Release notes for version 0.9.9c [2013-03-15]:

 - I am marking the 15th-edition styles as "deprecated."  I recommend
   that you switch to one of the 16th-edition styles as soon as is
   practicable.  The older styles still work, but haven't received any
   updates or bug fixes for this release.

 - Antti-Juhani Kaijahano has very kindly provided a new Finnish
   localization for biblatex-chicago, called cms-finnish.lbx.  As you
   will see if you look through it, it is still something of a work in
   progress.  If you would like to fill some of its lacunae, please do
   let me know.

 - Following a report by Bertold Schweitzer, I have added the "namea"
   and "nameb" fields to Article and Review entries in all three
   16th-edition Chicago styles.  As in all the book-like entry types,
   they allow you to associate an editor or a translator specifically
   with a "title" rather than, in these cases, with an "issuetitle."
   See the docs on these entry types in sections 4.1 and 5.1 in
   biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - Thanks to another report by Bertold I have, in all three
   16th-edition Chicago styles, corrected inaccuracies in the
   presentation of the Report entry type.  The "number" now appears
   immediately after the "type," and the "type" itself is now
   capitalized properly depending on its context in an entry.

 - A third report by Bertold, detailing inaccuracies in the treatment
   of the "volume" and "volumes" fields in certain contexts, has
   resulted in a complete rewrite of the presentation of these (and
   several related) fields in all non-periodical entry types in all
   three 16th-edition Chicago styles.  This won't require any changes
   to your .bib files, but the output you see may, in some reasonably
   unusual situations, change.  Please let me know if something
   doesn't look right to you.

 - A fourth report by Bertold revealed some inadequacies with multiple
   date presentation in the two 16th-edition author-date styles,
   issues that particularly involved cross-referenced entries.  In
   addition to some general fixes in the code, I have also slightly
   changed the functioning of the "cmsdate=both" and "cmsdate=on"
   switches.  If, and only if, a work has only one date, and there is
   no "switchdates" in the "options" field, then "cmsdate=on" and
   "cmsdate=both" will both result in the suppression of the
   "extrayear" field in that entry.  See the "date" field docs in
   section 5.2 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - Following a report by Antti-Juhani Kaijahano, I have modified the
   presentation of author-less Article and Review entries in the
   reference list of both 16th-edition author-date styles.  If such a
   source had a "magazine" "entrysubtype," the styles would already
   use the "journaltitle" at the head of the entry in the list of
   references, but if there was no "entrysubtype" the entry would
   appear in the list "date" first.  Now, in keeping with the Manual
   (14.175), the "title" will appear first, in both reference lists
   and in-text citations.  See especially under Article in section 5.1
   of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - Several users have pointed out annoying formatting errors in the
   16th-edition styles.  Evan Cortens spotted two bugs in the notes &
   bibliography style, one of which, under various circumstances,
   introduced extra spaces into long notes and the other of which
   affected the formatting of the "type" field in Thesis entries.  I
   have fixed both, also applying the latter fix to several other
   entry types that use the "type" field.  Bertold Schweitzer pointed
   out a formatting bug with the "issuesubtitle" field in the
   author-date style, now fixed.  Mark Sprevak reported some spurious
   spaces appearing in headers and footers when using the titleps
   package; the culprits were errors in the cms-*.lbx files, now
   cleaned up.

 - I have rectified a number of other errors, in particular making the
   automatic provision of abbreviated cross-references more robust in
   InCollection, InProceedings, and Letter entries, improving the
   behavior of the "postnote" field in certain corner cases, fixing
   bugs in the handling of "pagination" and "bookpagination" fields,
   and slightly altering the placement of the "addendum" field in
   book-like entries to bring it closer to the Manual's specification.
   A number of other, smaller improvements should also bring the
   styles into closer conformity with the specification.

Release notes for version 0.9.9b [2012-12-06]:

 - This release contains a new variant of the author-date style,
   available as the "authordate-trad" option when loading
   biblatex-chicago.  This provides the traditional, plain,
   pre-16th-edition Chicago title handling -- sentence-style
   capitalization, absence of quotation marks in Article titles and
   the like -- but in all other respects follows the 16th-edition
   specification, as suggested by the Manual (15.45).  Remember that
   the "headline" package option can be used to turn off the automatic
   sentence-style capitalization, meaning that titles will appear as
   presented in the .bib file, at least as far as capitalization is
   concerned.  Please see especially the documentation under "title"
   in section 5.2 of biblatex-chicago.pdf for the details.

 - I have updated calls to \DeclareLabelname and \DeclareLabelyear in
   several .cbx files so that the package works correctly with the
   most recent version (2.4) of biblatex.

 - Following a request by Norman Gray, and adapting code by Audrey
   Boruvka, I have included a \textcite (and a \textcites) command in
   the notes & bibliography style for the first time.

 - Following a request by Daniel Possenriede, I have added in all
   three 16th-edition styles a new switch, "only", to the "doi"
   option, which prints the "doi" field when present and the "url"
   field only when there is no "doi."  The package default remains,
   however, "true".

 - I am grateful to Baldur Kristinsson for providing an Icelandic
   localization file for biblatex-chicago, called cms-icelandic.lbx.
   You'll see if you look through it that it is still something of a
   work in progress, but it should cover most needs in that language
   very well.  If you would like to fill in some of the gaps please
   let me know.

 - I am also grateful to Håkon Malmedal for providing Norwegian
   localizations for biblatex-chicago, contained in the files
   cms-norsk.lbx, cms-norwegian.lbx, and cms-nynorsk.lbx.

 - I have added a new British localization, cms-british.lbx.  The
   "british" option to babel should now work without further
   intervention.  For further details on the usage of all these
   localizations please see section 6 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - Several users have reported a bug that resulted in doubled
   bibstrings in certain contexts.  This happened only when using
   localizations for which biblatex-chicago didn't have explicit
   support, and it should now be fixed.

 - I have changed the way the 16th-edition author-date styles handle
   the Ibidem mechanism.  In the absence of a "postnote" field you no
   longer get empty parentheses, but rather a standard in-text
   citation.  If you do have a "postnote" field, then only that will
   appear.

Release notes for version 0.9.9a [2012-07-30]:

 - I have made a few changes to biblatex-chicago.sty to allow the
   package to work with the latest version (2.0) of biblatex.  In all
   other respects this release is identical to 0.9.9.  If you do use
   the package with biblatex 2.0, please let me know if there are
   issues I need to address.  Thanks to Charles Schaum for alerting me
   to some of them.

Release notes for version 0.9.9 [2012-07-05]:

This release contains, for the first time, the style files for the
16th edition of the Chicago Manual of Style.  If you wish to begin
using the newest specification, then there are some changes you'll
have to make to your .bib files, which I summarize here.  First, I
consider the notes & bibliography style, then author-date.  After
that, you can find a listing of more general changes to the package,
followed by the changes I've made to the 15th-edition styles.

Notes & Bibliography:

 - The specification for Music entries has been significantly altered
   for the new edition.  You no longer need to worry about the
   \textcircledP and \textcopyright signs in the "howpublished" field,
   which will be silently ignored, and the "pubstate" field now
   reverts to its usual function of identifying reprints or, in this
   case, reissues.  The spec really only requires a record label
   ("series") and catalog number ("number"), though "publisher" is
   still available if you need it.  There is a new emphasis, finally,
   on the dating of musical recordings, so that the "eventdate" gives
   the recording date of a particular song or other portion of a
   recording, the "origdate" the recording date of an entire album,
   and the "date" the publishing date of that album.  Please see the
   full documentation in biblatex.pdf.

 - The specification for Video entries has also been clarified.  For
   television series, the episode and series numbers go in
   "booktitleaddon" instead of "titleaddon" and, as with Music
   entries, the "eventdate" will hold the original broadcast date of
   such an episode, or perhaps the recording/performance date of,
   e.g., an opera on DVD.  The "origdate" will still hold the original
   release date of a film, and the "date" the publishing or copyright
   date of the medium you are referencing.  Please see the full
   documentation in biblatex.pdf.

 - You should add CustomC entries to provide bibliographical
   cross-references from multiple pseudonyms back to the author's
   name.

 - In SuppBook entries, the Manual now requires you to provide the
   page range (in the "pages" field) for the specific part you are
   citing, e.g., an introduction, foreword, or afterword.

 - In Patent entries, the Manual now prefers sentence-style
   capitalization for titles, which you'll need to provide yourself by
   hand.

 - When a descriptive phrase is used as an "author," you can now omit
   an initial definite or indefinite article, which will help with
   alphabetization in the bibliography.

 - A DOI is now preferred to a URL, if both are available.

 - On the same subject, a revision date (or similar) is preferred to
   an access date for online material.  You can use the new "userd"
   field to change the string introducing the "urldate," which
   defaults to being an access date.

 - Special imprints are now separated from their parent press by a
   forward slash rather than a comma, so can just be added to the
   "publisher" field with the usual keyword "and".

 - I have implemented a reasonable, less-flexible facsimile of the
   Biber-only command \DeclareLabelname which should work for those
   using any backend.  It allows biblatex to find a name for short
   notes outside the standard name fields, including, notably, in the
   "name[a-c]" fields.  This should reduce the instances where you
   need a "shortauthor" field to provide such a name.

 - The Chicago-specific setting of another Biber-only command,
   \DeclareSortingScheme=cms, allows non-standard fields to be
   considered by biblatex's sorting algorithms, which should reduce
   the instances where you need a "sortkey" or the like in your
   entries.  If you aren't using Biber, the package reverts to the
   standard "nty" sorting scheme.

Author-Date:

 - All title fields now follow the rules for the notes & bibliography
   style as far as punctuation, formatting, and capitalization are
   concerned.  Biblatex-chicago-authordate will deal with most of this
   automatically, but if you have any hand formatting of lowercase
   letters within curly braces in your .bib file, you will need to
   restore the headline-style capitalization there.  Also, you'll need
   to be more careful when you provide quotation marks inside titles,
   remembering to use \mkbibquote so that punctuation can be brought
   inside nested quotation marks.  These revisions will apply
   particularly to "title," "booktitle," and "maintitle" fields.

 - The one exception to these rules is in Patent entries, where
   sentence-style capitalization of the "title" is now specified.
   You'll have to provide this by hand yourself, as in the notes &
   bibliography style.

 - Because of these changes to title formatting, you'll need to
   observe the difference between Article and Review entries, where
   the latter contain generic, "Review of ..." titles and the former
   standard, specific titles.

 - The presentation of "shorthand" fields has changed.  You no longer
   need to use the CustomC entry type to include cross-references from
   shorthands to expansions in the list of references.  Now, simply
   using a "shorthand" field in an entry places that "shorthand" in
   citations and at the head of the entry in the list of references,
   where it will be followed by its expansion within parentheses.  The
   new system will require help with sorting in the reference list --
   placing the "shorthand" also in a "sortkey" should do the trick.

 - On the subject of CustomC entries, the Manual now recommends using
   cross-references in several contexts, particularly when a single
   author uses more than one pseudonym.  Adding CustomC entries makes
   this happen.

 - There have been significant changes when presenting book-like
   entries with more than one date.  If you are using the "cmsdate=on"
   option, or indeed simply placing the earlier date in the "date"
   field and the later one in "origdate," the presentation will be the
   same as before, but you should understand that the Manual no longer
   recommends this "origdate"-only style.  It prefers, instead, to
   present either the "date" alone or both dates in citations and at
   the head of reference list entries.  When presenting both dates,
   there is now no longer a choice between the "old" and "new" options
   for "cmsdate," but only the "both" option.  If you have "old" or
   "new" in your .bib files, they will be treated as synonyms of
   "both".

 - The specification for Music entries has been significantly altered
   for the new edition.  You no longer need to worry about the
   \textcircledP and \textcopyright signs in the "howpublished" field,
   which will be silently ignored, and the "pubstate" field reverts to
   its more usual function of identifying reprints or, in this case,
   reissues.  The spec really only requires a record label ("series")
   and catalog number ("number"), though "publisher" is still
   available if you need it.  There is a new emphasis, finally, on the
   dating of musical recordings, which means that such entries will
   fit better with the author-date style.  It also means that I have
   had to redefine the various date fields.  The "eventdate" gives the
   recording date of a particular song or other portion of a
   recording, the "origdate" the recording date of an entire album,
   and the "date" the publishing date of that album.  The earlier date
   is the one that will appear in citations and at the head of
   reference list entries.  Please see the full documentation in
   biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - The specification for Video entries has also been clarified.  For
   television series, the episode and series numbers go in
   "booktitleaddon" instead of "titleaddon" and, as with Music
   entries, the "eventdate" will hold the original broadcast date of
   such an episode, or perhaps the recording/performance date of,
   e.g., an opera on DVD.  The "origdate" will still hold the original
   release date of a film, and the "date" the publishing or copyright
   date of the medium you are referencing.  The earlier date, once
   again, is the one that will appear in citations and at the head of
   reference list entries.  Please see the full documentation in
   biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - In SuppBook entries, the Manual now requires you to provide the
   page range (in the "pages" field) for the specific part you are
   citing, e.g., an introduction, foreword, or afterword.

 - The author-date style now prefers longer bibstrings in the list of
   references, bringing it into line with the notes & bibliography
   style.  Generally, the package will take care of this for you, but
   if you've been using abbreviated strings in "note" fields, for
   example, you may want to change them so that they conform with the
   strings the package provides.  In some circumstances the \partedit
   macro, and its relatives, may help.

 - When a descriptive phrase is used as an "author," you can now omit
   an initial definite or indefinite article, which will help with
   alphabetization in the bibliography.

 - A DOI is now preferred to a URL, if both are available.

 - On the same subject, a revision date (or similar) is preferred to
   an access date for online material.  You can use the new "userd"
   field to change the string introducing the "urldate," which
   defaults to being an access date.

 - Special imprints are now separated from their parent press by a
   forward slash rather than a comma, so can just be added to the
   "publisher" field with the usual keyword "and".

 - The 16th edition of the Manual is less than enthusiastic about the
   use of "Anon." as the "author," preferring instead that the "title"
   or the "journaltitle" take its place.  If you do decide to get rid
   of "Anon.," new facilities provided by Biber -- see next entry --
   should mean that biblatex no longer requires assistance when
   alphabetizing such author-less entries.

 - The Chicago-specific setting of the Biber-only command,
   \DeclareSortingScheme=cms, allows non-standard fields to be
   considered by biblatex's sorting algorithms, which should reduce
   the instances where you need a "sortkey" or the like in your
   entries.

 - The Chicago-specific setting of the Biber-only command
   \DeclareLabelname allows biblatex to find a name ("label") for
   citations outside the standard name fields, including, notably, in
   the "name[a-c]" fields.  This should reduce the instances where you
   need a "shortauthor" field to provide such a name.

Other New Features:

 - For reprinted books, you can now present more detailed publishing
   information about the original edition using the new "origlocation"
   and "origpublisher" fields.  You can also use the "origlocation" in
   Letter or Misc (with "entrysubtype") entries to identify where a
   published or unpublished letter was written.  These uses apply to
   both Chicago styles.

 - Thanks to a patch sent by Kazuo Teramoto, you can now take
   advantage of biblatex's facilities for citing "eprint" resources.
   There is also a new "eprint" option, set to "true" by default,
   which controls the printing of this field in both Chicago styles.
   You can set the option both in the preamble and in the "options"
   field of individual entries.  The field will always print in Online
   entries.

 - I have added a new citation command, \citejournal, to the notes &
   bibliography style to allow you to present journal articles using
   an alternative short note form, which may be a clearer form of
   reference in certain circumstances.  Such short notes will present
   the name of the "author," the "journaltitle," and the "volume"
   information.

 - I have included a very slightly modified version of the standard
   biblatex \citeauthor command, which may be useful for references to
   works from classical antiquity.

 - I have added a new "cmsdate=full" switch to the author-date style,
   which only affects citations in the text, and means that a full
   date specification will appear there, rather than just the year.
   If you follow the Manual's recommendations concerning newspaper and
   magazine articles only appearing in running text and not in the
   reference list, this option will help.

 - I have added a new "avdate" option to the author-date style, set to
   "true" by default in biblatex-chicago.sty.  This changes the
   default setting of \DeclareLabelyear in Music, Review, and Video
   entries to take account of specialized instructions in the Manual
   for finding dates to appear in citations and at the head of
   reference list entries.  Setting "avdate=false" in the options when
   you load biblatex-chicago restores the default settings for all
   entry types.

 - The Manual has added recommendations for citing blogs, which
   generally will need an Article entry with "magazine"
   "entrysubtype."  You can identify a blog as such by placing "blog"
   in the "location" field.  If you want to cite a comment to a blog
   or to other online material, the Review entry type, "entrysubtype"
   "magazine" will serve.  The "eventdate" dates the comment, and any
   timestamp that is required can go in "nameaddon."  These
   instructions work in both styles.

 - Photographs are no longer presented differently from other sorts of
   artworks so, in effect, in both styles, the Image type is now a
   clone of Artwork, though retained for backward compatibility.

 - Following a request by Kenneth Pearce, I have added new facilities
   for presenting "shorthands" in both Chicago styles.  In both, there
   are two new "bibenvironments" which you can set using the "env"
   option to the \printshorthands command: "losnotes" formats the list
   of shorthands so that it can be presented in a footnote, while
   "losendnotes" does the same for endnotes.  In both styles, there is
   a new preamble option, "shorthandfull", which prints the full
   bibliographical information of each entry inside the list of
   shorthands, allowing such a list effectively to replace a
   bibliography or list of references.  In the author-date style, you
   need to set the "cmslos=false" option as well, in order for this to
   work.  In the notes & bibliography style, I have added a new
   citation command, \shorthandcite, which prints the "shorthand" even
   for the first citation of a given work.

 - Following suggestions by Roger Hart, I have implemented three new
   field-exclusion options in the notes & bibliography style.  In all
   three cases, the field in question will always appear in the
   bibliography, but not in long notes, which may help to save space.
   The fields at stake are "addendum," "note," and "series,"
   controlled respectively by the new "addendum", "notefield", and
   "bookseries" options.  All of these are set to "true" using the new
   "completenotes" option in chicago-notes.cbx, but you can change the
   settings either in the preamble or in the "options" field of
   individual entries.  Please see the documentation of these options
   in biblatex-chicago.pdf for details on which entry types are
   excluded from their scope.

 - Thanks to a coding suggestion from Gildas Hamel, I have redefined
   the \bibnamedash in biblatex-chicago.sty, which should now by
   default look a little better in a wider variety of fonts.

 - At the request of Baldur Kristinsson, I have added
   \DeclareLanguageMapping commands to biblatex-chicago.sty for all
   the languages biblatex-chicago provides.  If you load the style in
   the standard way, you no longer need to provide these mappings
   manually yourself.

 - I have improved the date handling in both styles, particularly with
   regard to date ranges.

Changes to the 15th-edition styles:

 - To continue using the 15th-edition styles, for whatever reason,
   please remember to specify either "notes15" or "authordate15" when
   loading biblatex-chicago in your preamble.

 - For reprinted books, you can now present more detailed information
   about the original edition using the new "origlocation" and
   "origpublisher" fields.  You can also use this field in Letter or
   Misc (with "entrysubtype") entries to give the place where a
   published or unpublished letter was written.  These uses apply to
   both styles.

 - Thanks to a patch sent by Kazuo Teramoto, you can now take
   advantage of biblatex's facilities for citing "eprint" resources,
   but only in the author-date style.  There is also a new "eprint"
   option, set to "true" by default, which controls the printing of
   this field.  You can set the option both in the preamble and in the
   "options" field of individual entries.  The field will always print
   in Online entries.

 - I have added a new citation command, \citejournal, to the notes &
   bibliography style to allow you to present journal articles using
   an alternative short note form, which may be a clearer form of
   reference in certain circumstances.  Such short notes will present
   the name of the "author," the "journaltitle," and the "volume"
   information.

 - I have included a very slightly modified version of the standard
   biblatex \citeauthor command, which may be useful for references to
   works from classical antiquity.

 - I have added a new "cmsdate=full" switch to the author-date style,
   which only affects citations in the text, and means that a full
   date specification will appear there, rather than just the year.
   If you follow the Manual's recommendations concerning newspaper and
   magazine articles only appearing in running text and not in the
   reference list, this option will help.

 - I have provided a new option, "headline", which turns off the
   automatic transformations that produce sentence-style
   capitalization in the title fields of the author-date style.  If
   you set this option, the word case in your title fields will not be
   changed in any way, that is, this doesn't automatically transform
   your titles into headline-style, but rather allows the .bib file to
   determine capitalization.

 - Following a request by Kenneth Pearce, I have added new facilities
   for presenting "shorthands" in the author-date style.  There are
   two new "bibenvironments" which you can set using the "env" option
   to the \printshorthands command: "losnotes" formats the list of
   shorthands so that it can be presented in a footnote, while
   "losendnotes" does the same for endnotes.  There is also a new
   preamble option, "shorthandfull", which prints the full
   bibliographical information of each entry inside the list of
   shorthands, allowing such a list effectively to replace a list of
   references.  You need to set the "cmslos=false" option as well in
   order for this to work.

 - Thanks to a coding suggestion from Gildas Hamel, I have redefined
   the \bibnamedash in biblatex-chicago.sty, which should now by
   default look a little better in a wider variety of fonts.

 - At the request of Baldur Kristinsson, I have added
   \DeclareLanguageMapping commands to biblatex-chicago.sty for all
   the languages biblatex-chicago provides.  If you load the style in
   the standard way, you no longer need to provide these mappings
   manually yourself.

 - I have improved the date handling in both styles, particularly with
   regard to date ranges.

Release notes for version 0.9.8d [2011-11-15]:

 - Some minor fixes to both styles for compatibility with biblatex
   1.7.

 - Kenneth Pearce found an error in the formatting of BookInBook
   titles in the author-date style's list of shorthands.  This should
   work properly now.

 - Jonathan Robinson spotted some inconsistencies in the way the notes
   & bibliography style interacts with the hyperref package.
   Following his suggestion, short notes now point to long notes when
   the latter are available, but to bibliography entries instead when
   you have given the "short" option to biblatex-chicago.

Release notes for version 0.9.8c [2011-10-12]:

 - Emil Salim pointed out some rather basic errors in the presentation
   of InProceedings and Proceedings entries, errors that have been
   present from the first release of the style(s).  These should now,
   belatedly, have been put right.  This doesn't require any changes
   to your .bib files.

Release notes for version 0.9.8b [2011-09-29]:

 - Christian Boesch alerted me to some bad date-formatting errors
   produced when using the styles with the "german" option to babel.
   A little further investigation revealed similar problems with
   "french," and before long it became clear that date handling in
   biblatex-chicago was generally, and significantly, sub-optimal.
   The whole system should now be more robust and more accurate.

 - The new date-handling code shouldn't require any changes to your
   .bib files, but users of the author-date style may want to have a
   look at the documentation of the Letter and Misc entry types, and
   of the four date fields, for some information about how the changes
   could simplify the creation of their databases.

Release notes for version 0.9.8a [2011-09-21]:

 - Fixed a series of unsightly errors in the author-date style,
   discovered while working on the pending update to the 16th edition.

 - Fixed bugs uncovered in both the author-date and the notes &
   bibliography styles thanks to Charles Schaum's adventurous use of
   the "origyear" field.

 - Added two new bibstrings to the cms-*.lbx files to fix potential
   bugs in some of the audiovisual entry types.

Release notes for version 0.9.8 [2011-08-31]:

 - Starting with biblatex version 1.5, in order to adhere to the
   author-date specification you will need to use Biber to process
   your .bib files, as BibTeX (and its more recent variants) will no
   longer provide all the required features.  Unfortunately, however,
   the current release of Biber (0.9.5) contains bugs that make it
   tricky to use with biblatex-chicago.  These bugs have been
   addressed in 0.9.6 beta, which is available for various operating
   systems in the development subdirectory of your SourceForge mirror,
   e.g., ... b/project/bi/biblatex-biber/biblatex-biber/development.
   (If, by the time you read this, Biber 0.9.6 has already been
   released, then so much the better.)  Please see the start of
   cms-dates-sample.pdf for more details.

 - The switch to Biber for the author-date specification means that
   biblatex now provides considerably enhanced handling of the various
   date fields.  I have attempted to document the relevant changes in
   cms-dates-sample.pdf and in the "date" discussion in
   biblatex-chicago.pdf, but in my testing the only alterations I've
   so far had to make to my .bib files involve adhering more closely
   to the instructions for specifying date ranges.  Biber doesn't like
   {1968/75}, and will ignore it.  Either use {1968/1975} or put
   {1968--75} in the "year" field.

 - In the notes & bibliography style, and mainly in Article, Letter,
   Misc, and Review entries, previous releases of biblatex-chicago
   recommended using the \isdot macro when you needed both to define a
   field and not have it appear in the printed output.  This mechanism
   no longer works in biblatex 1.6, and while addressing the problem I
   realized that relying on it covered over some inconsistencies and
   bugs in my code, so from this release forward you will need to
   modify your .bib and .tex files to use other, more standard
   mechanisms to achieve the same ends, in particular the
   \headlesscite commands and declaring "useauthor=false" in the
   "options" field.  Please consult the documentation in
   biblatex-chicago.pdf section 4.3.1, s.v. "isdot," for a list of
   example entries where you can see these changes at work.

 - The 16th-edition files are well under way, but still a work in
   progress.

Other changes in 0.9.8:

 - Fixed the \smartcite citation command in, and added a \smartcites
   command to, chicago-notes.cbx, so that the notes & bibliography
   style no longer prints parentheses around citations produced using
   \autocite(s) commands inside \footnote commands.  Many thanks to
   Louis-Dominique Dubeau for pointing out this error.

 - Fixed a problem with the \lbx@fromlang command, which biblatex 1.6
   no longer defines.  Many thanks to Rembrandt Wolpert and Aaron
   Lambert for pointing this out, and to Charles Schaum for posting a
   temporary workaround in a newsgroup post.

 - Version 1.6 of biblatex no longer allows you to redefine the
   "minnames" and "maxnames" options in the \printbibliography
   command, so I've defined "minbibnames" and "maxbibnames" in
   biblatex-chicago.sty, instead.  These parameters have been
   available since version 1.1, so this is now the earliest version of
   biblatex that will work with the Chicago styles.  Of course, if the
   (Chicago-recommended) values of these options don't suit your
   needs, you can redefine them in your document preamble.

Release notes for version 0.9.7a [2011-03-17]:

 - Added the \smartcite citation command to chicago-notes.cbx so that
   the notes & bibliography style will work with biblatex 1.3.

 - Added bibstrings "byconductor" and "cbyconductor" to the .lbx
   files, mistakenly omitted in version 0.9.7.

 - Minor fixes to the docs.

Release notes for version 0.9.7 [2011-02-15]:

 - The CustomA and CustomB entry types are now obsolete.  Any such
   entry in your .bib files will be ignored.  Please use Letter and
   BookInBook, respectively.

 - If you still have any CustomC entries containing introductions,
   afterwords, or the like, please change them to SuppBook, as I have
   reclaimed CustomC in order to provide alphabetized cross-references
   to other, separate entries in a bibliography or list of references.

 - The directory structure of the package archive has changed.  I've
   copied that used by the biblatex package, so now you will find a
   latex/ directory with further bbx/, cbx/, and lbx/ subdirectories,
   and a doc/ directory with an examples/ subdirectory.  The files are
   the same as in the previous release, merely organized differently.

Other changes in 0.9.7:

 - I have added three new audiovisual entry types to both styles,
   Audio, Music, and Video.  The documentation of Audio in sections
   4.1 and 5.1 of biblatex-chicago.pdf contains an overview of the
   three, and the details for each type are to be found under their
   individual headings.

 - I have added several new bibstrings to the cms-*.lbx files for
   these new audiovisual entry types.  This means that the
   "editortype" fields can now be set to "director," "producer," or
   "conductor," depending on your needs.  You can also set the fields
   to "none," which eliminates all identifying strings, and which is
   useful for identifying performers of various sorts.

 - I have transformed the CustomC entry type to enable alphabetized
   cross-references -- the "c" is meant to be mnemonic -- to other,
   separate entries in a reference list or bibliography.  In
   particular, this facilitates cross-references to other names in a
   list, rather than to other works.  In author-date, in a procedure
   recommended by the Manual, this now allows you to expand shorthands
   inside the reference list rather than in a list of shorthands.  In
   both styles, you can now provide a pointer to the main entry if a
   reader is looking an author up under, e.g., a pseudonym or other
   alternative name.

 - I have introduced the "userc" field, intended to simplify the
   printing of the cross-references provided by CustomC entries.  The
   standard \nocite command works as well, but the additional
   mechanism may be more convenient in some circumstances.

 - You can now provide an "eventdate" field in Music entries to
   identify, e.g., a particular recording session.  It will be printed
   just after the "title."

 - In the notes & bibliography style, I have now implemented the
   "shorthandintro" field, which allows you to change the string
   introducing a shorthand in the first, long note.  It works just as
   it does in the standard biblatex styles.

 - I have added six new field-exclusion options to both styles, all of
   which can be set both in the document preamble and/or in the
   "options" field of individual .bib entries.  Three of these --
   "doi," "isbn," and "url" -- are standard biblatex options, the
   others -- "bookpages," "includeall," and "numbermonth" -- are
   chicago-specific.

 - I've added the "juniorcomma" option to both styles, which can be
   set in the document preamble and/or in the "options" field of
   individual entries.  It allows you get the traditional comma
   between a surname and "Jr." or "Sr."

 - I fixed some old inaccuracies in the syntax of shortened notes and
   bibliography entries presenting multiple contributions to one
   multi-author (or single-author) volume.  For the most part the
   changes won't affect your .bib files, but there may be cases where
   you need to choose your entry types carefully in order to get the
   results you want.  For the details, please consult the "crossref"
   docs in section 4.2 of biblatex-chicago.pdf.

 - Several other bug fixes -- see biblatex-chicago.pdf for details.

Release notes for version 0.9.5a [2010-09-07]:

 - This fixes an elementary and show-stopping mistake in
   biblatex-chicago.sty, a mistake disguised if you use the csquotes
   package, which I do in all my test files.  Many thanks to Israel
   Jacques and Emil Salim for pointing this out to me.

 - These files have now been tested with biblatex 0.9c and 0.9d, which
   both work fine.

Release notes for version 0.9.5 [2010-09-03]:

Users upgrading from biblatex-chicago-notes-df may need to alter a few
things in their .bib files and in their document preambles.

 - If you used \usepackage{biblatex-chicago} to load the package, now
   you need \usepackage[notes]{biblatex-chicago} instead.  (The
   default if you don't choose between "notes" and "authordate" is, in
   fact, "notes," so even if you don't make this change it should all
   still work.)

 - If you used \usepackage[style=chicago-notes-df]{biblatex} to load
   the package, then be aware that you now need style=chicago-notes
   (or style=chicago-authordate) instead.

 - If you are still, for some reason, using the \custpunctc macro in
   your .bib files, it is now obsolete.  Its function has been taken
   by the punctuation-tracking code present in biblatex for a long
   while now.

 - I have slightly improved the Misc entry type that uses an
   "entrysubtype."  If you are citing archival letters or other
   letter-like sources (memoranda, reports, telegrams), then you're
   already using the "origdate" field, and that's still correct.  If
   you're citing non-letter-like sources (interviews, wills,
   contracts, personal communications received by yourself), then
   putting the date into the "date" field will slightly improve
   compliance with the specification, at least as I interpret it.
   Nothing untoward will happen if you don't make this change, and the
   distinction can be difficult to draw, but it needed mentioning
   nonetheless.

 - I've improved the "number" field in Article, Periodical, and Review
   entries.  You can now put a series or range of numbers into the
   field and the style will print them prefixed by the appropriate
   bibstring, singular or plural.

 - I've improved author-less Manual, Article, and Review entries (the
   latter two with magazine "entrysubtype").  In previous releases of
   biblatex-chicago-notes-df you needed a "shortauthor" field to make
   sure either the "organization" (in Manual entries) or the
   "journaltitle" (in Article and Review entries) appeared in short
   notes.  The style now automatically takes a name for short notes
   from those fields, though you can still use "shortauthor" if you
   wish to present it differently, e.g., in an abbreviated form.
   Again, you probably needn't change anything in your .bib files, but
   being aware of this may make entries simpler to construct in the
   future.

 - I've marked the Custom[A-C] entry types as deprecated, in
   preparation for reusing them for other purposes in the next major
   release.  Please change CustomA to Letter, CustomB to BookInBook,
   and CustomC to SuppBook in your .bib files.

Other changes in 0.9.5:

 - The Chicago author-date style is now implemented in the package,
   and therefore the package name has changed to biblatex-chicago.  A
   number of the files inside the package also have altered names --
   the README file and biblatex-chicago.pdf contain the complete list.

 - I've now implemented the biblatex field "pubstate" in both styles.
   In the author-date style, it is strongly recommended you use it to
   identify reprints by putting the string "reprint" there.  The
   requirements for formatting such entries are relatively complex,
   and the style does the right thing automatically.  In the notes &
   bibliography style, you can also use the field in the same way to
   identify reprints, though placing the \reprint macro in the
   "location" field still works as it always has.  Don't, please, use
   both methods in the same entry.

 - I've improved the functioning of Patent entries to make them more
   compliant with the specification.

 - Entries with a classical "entrysubtype" may behave slightly
   differently now, as I've improved the provision of punctuation
   before certain kinds of page or location specifiers even when
   citing works by their traditional divisions.  This should, once
   again, make the package more compliant.

Release notes for version 0.9a [2010-03-20]:

 - Small, quick fixes for immediate compatibility with biblatex 0.9a.

Release notes for version 0.9 [2010-03-18]:

As I noted in the README file, users will have to modify their .bib
files somewhat to work properly with this release of biblatex-chicago.
Some of these changes result from the disappearance of certain fields
in biblatex itself -- particularly the "day" and "origyear" fields --
so you should at least skim through Lehman's RELEASE file first to
familiarize yourself with what it means for your setup.  The changes
required for Chicago are as follows:

 - In CustomA (Letter) entries, the counter-intuitive reversal of
   roles between "year" and "origyear" has been eliminated.  In common
   with other entry types, the "year" (or "date") field now refers to
   the publication date of the collection.  The new "origdate" field
   now holds the date the letter was written.  In short, change the
   "date" (or "year," "month," and "day") to "origdate," and change
   "origyear" to "year" (or "date").

 - In Misc entries with an "entrysubtype," used to cite unpublished
   sources from a named archive, exactly the same reversal of roles
   was in place, and is now eliminated.  The new "origdate" field now
   holds the date the letter was written or the interview conducted,
   so change the "date" (or "year," "month," and "day") to "origdate."
   (Under most circumstances, therefore, such entries won't have a
   "date" field defined.)  Also, the use of the exact string "letter"
   in the "entrysubtype" field is no longer required.  Using
   "origdate" prints the date where you want it, so anything at all in
   "entrysubtype" will do the trick, with "letter" being as good as
   anything else, meaning you don't actually have to modify this
   field.

 - In Patent entries, you need to make similar changes.  The
   "origdate" field now holds the date the patent was filed, and the
   "date" field identifies when the patent was granted, if it was
   granted.  You no longer need a specially-formatted "addendum" field
   for these entries.  In short, change the "date" (or "year,"
   "month," and "day") to "origdate," and put the date from the
   "addendum" field into "date."  Any supplemental information you
   want printed after the dates of the patent can still be given in
   the "addendum" field, but most such entries won't require this.

 - The "userd" field is now obsolete.  If by some chance you are still
   using it, please move any information found there into the
   "edition" field.

Other changes in 0.9:

 - Added the files cms-german.lbx (with its clone cms-ngerman.lbx) and
   cms-french.lbx, which allow the creation of Chicago-like references
   in those languages.

 - Added the package option "annotation" to allow the creation of
   annotated bibliographies.

 - Added the new biblatex BookInBook entry type, which functions as an
   alias to CustomB.

 - Following biblatex's example, using the editortype field now turns
   off the package's usual string concatenation mechanisms.

 - Added support for the new editor[a-c] and editor[a-c]type fields,
   which function as they do in the standard biblatex styles.

 - My modified csquotes.cfg file is now obsolete, and has been removed
   from the package.  Please upgrade to the latest version of
   csquotes.

 - Added bibstrings to help with internationalization.  The new ones
   you might use in a .bib file are: pseudonym, nodate,
   revisededition, numbers, and reviewof.

Changelog for version 0.8.9d [2010-02-16]:

 - Bug fix release, the last in the 0.8.9 series, intended for use
   with biblatex 0.8i, _not_ with 0.9.  See note above.

Changelog for version 0.8.9c [2009-11-04]:

 - Bug fix release.  The details are in biblatex-chicago-notes-df.pdf.

Changelog for version 0.8.9b [2009-09-09]:

 - Fixed several bugs, both recent and venerable.  Please upgrade to
   the latest version of biblatex (0.8h at time of writing), though I
   have attempted to maintain backward compatibility at least with
   0.8e.

 - Experimental version of the "reprinttitle" field, which allows you
   to provide original publication details of essays or chapters you
   are citing from a later reprint.  See the pdf file for all the
   details.

Changelog for version 0.8.9a [2009-07-05]:

 - Minor fixes to allow compatibility with biblatex 0.8e.  The package
   still works with 0.8d and 0.8c, as well.

Changelog for version 0.8.9 [2009-07-02]:

 - The default way of loading the package has changed.  Please see the
   documentation for all the details, but in short, if you used to
   load it with a command like:

   	\usepackage[style=chicago-notes-df,further-options]{biblatex}

   you should now load it like so:

        \usepackage[further-options]{biblatex-chicago}

 - All single-letter bibstrings are now obsolete.  Please use \autocap
   instead

 - You should be using at least biblatex version 0.8c.  0.8d would be
   even better.

 - The package-specific bibstrings have been removed from the .cbx and
   .bbx files and gathered in a new file, cms-american.lbx.  This
   changes somewhat the way the package interacts with babel, making
   it simpler if you want the defaults, but more complicated if you
   require non-standard features.  In short, assuming you use the
   default loading option I've just described, then babel's main text
   language can be american or english, or alternately you can turn
   off babel altogether, and the strings should be available
   automatically.

 - Added two new entry types, Artwork and Image.

 - Added a new bibliography and entry option usecompiler, set to true
   by default in biblatex-chicago.sty.

 - Added the new bibliography option footmarkoff to
   biblatex-chicago.sty.  This turns off the optional formatting of
   marks (in-line instead of superscript) on foot- or endnotes,
   returning you to the LaTeX defaults.

 - Added the new citation command \headlesscite, which works like
   \headlessfullcite but allows biblatex to decide whether to print
   the full or the short version of the reference.

 - Adopted biblatex's end-of-entry punctuation system, which fixes
   issues several users have been seeing with the solution I offered
   in previous releases.

 - Added a modified csquotes.cfg file (in the XeLaTeX subdirectory) to
   address issues users were having when using XeLaTeX with
   biblatex-chicago.  Please see the docs for the details.

 - Added a new shorthandibid option that allows you to print "Ibid."
   after repeated references to an entry which contains a shorthand
   field.  Previously, the shorthand itself would always be printed,
   and this behavior remains the default if you don't set this option.

 - Added a clone of biblatex's natbib option, so that users who use
   \usepackage{biblatex-chicago} instead of \usepackage{biblatex} can
   still have access to the biblatex's natbib compatibility code in
   bibnatex.def.

Changelog for version 0.8.5a [2009-06-14]:

 - Quick and dirty fix to allow compatibility with biblatex 0.8d.

Changelog for version 0.8.5 [2009-01-10]:

 - At least version 0.8b of biblatex now required -- even better, get
   the latest (0.8c).

 - Adopted the "American" punctuation tracker provided by biblatex,
   which fixes many small formatting errors and eliminates the need
   for \custpunct commands, but requires that you use \mkbibquote when
   quoted material appears inside a bibliography field.

 - Loading babel with "American" as the main text language now
   _strongly_ recommended.

 - The CustomC entry type now allows referencing any sort of post- or
   pre-matter via the type field, though the old mechanism remains in
   place for backward compatibility.  The new SuppBook and
   SuppCollection entry types are aliased to CustomC, and therefore
   work in exactly the same way.

 - The new SuppPeriodical entry type is aliased to Review, and Letter
   to CustomA.

 - For InReference entries the postnote field of a citation command is
   now automatically treated as an alphabetized encyclopedia entry,
   that is, it will be placed in quotation marks and prefaced with the
   string "s.v."  This may allow multiple citations of the same
   reference work without multiplying .bib entries.

 - The biblatex option "usetranslator" is now set to "true" by
   default, which means entries will automatically be alphabetized by
   their translator in the absence of an author or an editor.

 - I've added some color-coding to biblatex-chicago-notes-df.pdf to
   highlight new or significantly revised sections.

Changelog for version 0.8.2.2 [2008-11-24]:

 - Fixed spurious commas in some bibliography entries.

Changelog for version 0.8.2 [2008-11-03]:

 - Fixed several formatting glitches between citations in multicite
   commands and also after some prenotes.

Changelog for version 0.8.1 [2008-10-22]:

 - Updated the .bbx and .cbx files to work with biblatex 0.8.  This
  most recent version of biblatex is now required for
  biblatex-chicago-notes-df to work.

 - The origlocation field is now obsolete, and has been replaced by
  lista.  Please update your .bib files accordingly.

 - The single-letter \bibstring commands I provided in version 0.7 are
  now deprecated.  In most cases, you'll be able to take advantage of
  the automatic contextual capitalization facilities introduced in
  this release, but if you still need the single-letter \bibstring
  functionality then you should switch to \autocap, as I shall be
  removing the single-letter bibstrings in a future release.  See the
  \autocap docs for all the details.

 - The userd field is now deprecated, as biblatex 0.8 allows all forms
  of data to be included in the edition field.  I shall be removing
  userd in a future release, so please update your .bib files as soon
  as is convenient.

 - Added the usera field, which holds supplemental information about a
  journaltitle in article and review entries.  See the documentation
  of the field for details.

 - Other minor fixes and additions.  See the full changelog for more.

Changelog for version 0.7 [2008-08-18]:

 - First public release 

Copyright (c) 2008-2016 David Fussner.  This package is
author-maintained.  This work may be copied, distributed and/or
modified under the conditions of the LaTeX Project Public License,
either version 1.3 of this license or (at your option) any later
version.  The latest version of this license is in
http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt and version 1.3 or later is part
of all distributions of LaTeX version 2005/12/01 or later.  This
software is provided "as is," without warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.
